I like to be structured. I like things to
be the way that they are. If you went in my
closet right now at home, you would find all
my short-sleeved t-shirts that don't have
a button in one order from light to dark in
color.
LUKE McCOWN
NFL QUARTERBACK
Memories of football that come to mind for
me is in the front yard, and we had these
hutch helmets and pads, and it was fun. I
mean, we all had different personalities.
At that point, I felt like I was going to
be a linebacker, so Dad would come out there
and Dad would just say, "Hey, if you're
going to get ready to play, you just go run
into that tree over there. That'll get you
ready to play."
I like to challenge my mind. A couple of years
ago, I started reading Einstein for Dummies,
just because I've always been fascinated
by the cosmos and looking up at the stars.
Einstein kind of decoded all of that with
gravity and his Theory of Relativity and all
that. And so you're kind of hearing my accent
and going, "There's no way you read Einstein,"
but I like to study things. I love to learn.
His strong desire to study and learn made Luke the perfect candidate for life as an NFL Quarterback.
Luke was drafted in the fourth round of the 2004 NFL Draft.
After two years in the league Luke established himself as the back-up Quarterback in Tampa Bay.
Year 2 in Tampa, my third year in the league,
the last practice, on the last day of OTAs,
I believe even the last play of the last period
of OTAs in June, I pull out my knee.
IN THEIR HEARTS HUMANS PLAN THEIR COURSE,
BUT GOD DIRECTS THEIR STEPS.
PROVERBS 16:9
God did some wonderful things, allowing me
to heal quickly. I worked my way back into
a position where I can play. At that moment,
we had had our second child, Elijah. Elijah
has a fall, as most babies do, but he gets
a bump on his head that doesn't go away,
and it stays there and it actually grows.
The first doctor that we go to says it's
a tumor, and "what took you so long to get
to us?"
He's four months old. What in the world
did he do to deserve this, or what did we
do? There's no way you can look at it and
go, "Okay, this is what we do next." I'm
a planning kind of guy; I didn't have a
plan.
Elijah underwent cranial surgery that was expected to take four hours.
Dr. Yako [sp] comes out about 30 minutes after
he took him back and said, "The hardest
part's over. We got him under anesthesia
just fine, and they're starting the surgery."
We go, "Okay, now we know that it's going
to be about four hours, three and a half hours
from now." Well, he comes out about an hour
and a half later and he says "We're done."
I said, "What do you mean, you're done?
You said it was going to take three and a
half hours." He said, "No, once we got
in there, the tumor was just sitting on top
of the bone, making a depression. We still
have to do the biopsy to decide whether it's
benign or malignant." But generally, they
can tell just by looking at it, so he came
out and said, "I don't want to guarantee
you anything, but I'm pretty sure that it's
benign and it's not cancerous."
Football didn't matter. It didn't matter
if I was the starter, the backup, or #3. My
son was going to be okay.
Elijah made a full recovery.
I get a call the next day, and it's Coach
Paul Hackett, and he calls me and says, "Hey,
you're going to start against New Orleans."
It's my first start since I was a rookie.
I step right in and I play the game of my
career. I've played the first half 15 for
15 with 200-something yards and a couple of
touchdowns, and I end up throwing a touchdown
pass to win the game with about eight seconds
to go.
So to be able to come in and play that freely
after that kind of a year, I think that's
why I was able to play so freely, is because
when you go through something like that, it
puts it in perspective.
After two season-ending knee injuries, five NFL Teams, and coaching decisions out of his control, Luke has gained perspective.
Whether it be knee injuries or my child's
illness or my coach's decision to sit me
down and not play me anymore or a general
manager's decision to trade me, it's God's
power in and around our lives that move us
and point us in the direction and make us
who He wants us to be. He's directing those
steps -- not that coach, not that general
manager, not that injury, not that sickness.
IN THEIR HEARTS HUMANS PLAN THEIR COURSE< BUT GOD DIRECTS THEIR STEPS.
PROVERBS 16:9
It's His plan, not mine. As much as I want to plan, He's the one in control.
LUKE McCOWN